Added `MasonryFlashList` which adds support for rendering masonry layouts (#587)
Shopify/flash-list: documentation/docs/guides/masonry-layout.md

---
id: masonry
title: Masonry Layout
---

Masonry Layout allows you to create a grid of items with different heights. It is a great way to display a collection of images with different sizes.

<div align="center">
<img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7811728/188055598-41f5c961-0dd0-4bb9-bc6e-22d78596a036.png" height="500"/>
</div>

> To get started, import `MasonryFlashList` from `@shopify/flash-list` and use it just like you would use `FlashList`:

Reviewer: Might be worth here just putting a code snippet? I know it will be basically identical with `flash-list` but imho still a good practice.

**Note:** If you want `MasonryFlashList` to optimize item arrangement, enable `optimizeItemArrangement` and pass a valid [`overrideItemLayout`](../fundamentals/usage.md#overrideitemlayout) function.

## Unsupported Props

> There are some props that `MasonryFlashList` does not support when compared to `FlashList`. These are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are some props that `MasonryFlashList` does not support when compared to `FlashList`:
```

- [`horizontal`](../fundamentals/usage.md#horizontal)
- [`inverted`](../fundamentals/usage.md#inverted)
- [`initialScrollIndex`](../fundamentals/usage.md#initialscrollindex)
- [`viewabilityConfigCallbackPairs`](../fundamentals/usage.md#viewabilityconfigcallbackpairs)
- [`onBlankArea`](../fundamentals/usage.md#onblankarea)

## Additional Props

> There are some additional props that `MasonryFlashList` supports when compared to `FlashList`. These are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`MasonryFlashList` supports these additional props on top of `FlashList`:
```

`when compared to` sounds odd to me here and we can make the wording more concise.

### `optimizeItemArrangement`

```tsx
optimizeItemArrangement?: boolean;
```

> If enabled, MasonryFlashList will try to reduce difference in column height by modifying item order. `overrideItemLayout` is required to make this work. Default value is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If enabled, MasonryFlashList will try to reduce difference in column height by modifying item order. If `true`, specifying [`overrideItemLayout`](../fundamentals/usage.md#overrideitemlayout) is required. Default value is `false`.
```

### `getColumnFlex`

```tsx

>   getColumnFlex?: (
>     items: T[],
>     columnIndex: number,
>     maxColumns: number,
>     extraData?: any
>   ) => number;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
getColumnFlex?: (
  items: T[],
  columnIndex: number,
  maxColumns: number,
  extraData?: any
) => number;
```

There's extra padding for this prop which there should not be afaict

```

> Allows you to change the column widths of the list. This is helpful if you want some columns to be wider than the others.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`getColumnFlex` allows you to change the column widths of the list. This is helpful if you want some columns to be wider than the others.
```

Example:

```tsx
// if `numColumns` is 3, you can return 1.25 for index 1 and 0.75 for the rest to achieve a 1:2:1 split by width.
getColumnSizeMultiplier={(items, index, maxColumns, extraData) => {

>     return index === 1 ? 0.75 * 2 : 0.75 * 1;

Author: Done 👍

}}
```

## Methods

> `MasonryFlashList` exposes the some methods that `FlashList` does. These are:

Author: We only have 3 while FlashList has many

> `MasonryFlashList` exposes the some methods that `FlashList` does. These are:

Author: FlashList has many more methods which aren't going to work right now.

> `MasonryFlashList` exposes the some methods that `FlashList` does. These are:

Reviewer: ahh, ok, have not realized 👍

### `scrollToEnd()`

```tsx
scrollToEnd?: (params?: { animated?: boolean | null | undefined });
```

Scrolls to the end of the content.

### `scrollToOffset()`

```tsx
scrollToOffset(params: {
  animated?: boolean | null | undefined;
  offset: number;
});
```

Scroll to a specific content pixel offset in the list.

> Param `offset` expects the offset to scroll to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter `offset` expects the offset to scroll to.
```

> Param `animated` (`false` by default) defines whether the list should do an animation while scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Parameter `animated` (`false` by default) defines whether the list should animate while scrolling.
```
